# YouTube Downloader V1

**oh god this again**

EXCEPT ITS NOT A MESS!!!

## What is YouTube Downloader?

It's basically a hobby project I'm working on as a tool for myself, and others, so they don't have to search around through really odd websites just to download some music from YouTube.

## How do I use it?

You need Python installed, if you don't have it installed, that's not my problem, find out how to do it for your OS ig ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯

1. `git clone https://github.com/pytmg/youtube-downloader` or [Download ZIP](https://github.com/pytmg/YouTube-Downloader/archive/refs/heads/master.zip)

2. If you downloaded the ZIP file, unzip it
3. Navigate to the folder
4. Run the `require.bat`/`.sh` file. To install necessary dependencies.
5. Run `python .` to start YouTube Downloader Interactive.
   
OR...

5. Run `python . video [URL]` to use the CLI mode, to download your video without navigating a menu.

If you want more information on the CLI mode, use the `--help` flag.

## Interactive Mode

All this is is just a really basic menu, literally designed to be as simple as possible. *for my sake.*

To switch modes, you can use your left/right arrow keys to navigate between VIDEO, AUDIO and BOTH.

To input a URL, you can press `U` on your keyboard to open up a prompt, where you can paste in your URL(s) (separated by space)

And then, once you've got all that done, just press ENTER, and wait... and wait... and, oh hey a bird- oh hey the video's done downloading.

## What's this JSON file?

It's a configuration file. Not necessary to download, it gets auto-generated by `__main__.py` anyway, do what you will with that.

## Where does it download?

Depending on your DownloadSettings.json file, it defaults to your Downloads folder. You can change it to anything else, including `.` which just means "wherever the downloader's being run FROM, download things there"